----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
PAPER: 22
TITLE: Precise Data Flow Analysis in the Presence of Correlated Method Calls
AUTHORS: Marianna Rapoport, Ondřej Lhoták and Frank Tip


----------- REVIEW -----------
The paper presents with detail a technique to eliminate unfeasible paths due to
correlated calls for the Interprocedural Finite Distributive Subset (IFDS)
framework. These correlated calls appear in object oriented languages when a
method invocation can use different implementations depending on the actual type
of the object during execution. The proposed approach transforms an IFDS problem
into an Interprocedural Distribute Environment (IDE) problem, that can be solved
efficiently. The authors propose two different IFDS-to-IDE translations: the
equivalent transformation, which does not produce any precision gain with
respect to the original IFDS problem, and the correlated-calls transformation,
whose solution can be more precise because it excludes flow along unfeasible paths
due to correlated paths. The solution obtained for the transformed IDE problem
can be translated back to a solution in the space of the IFDS framework. In
addition to the formalization of both translations, the paper also contains
theoretical results proving the soundness and precision of their translation, as
well as results about the efficiency of the whole analysis.

The paper is clear, well-structured and well-written. The authors do a good job
motivating the paper and illustrating the importance of the correlated calls in
a simple but engaging example of taint analysis. The figures are also very
helpful. Although the paper addresses several complex technical notions they are
adequately explained and it is easy to follow.

I consider that the work is a good research paper, showing useful results in the
field of data flow analysis. However I have some minor criticisms and comments
about the paper, sorted by importance:

* Page 14, Section 4.7:
  I would recommend to move Table 2 from the Appendix to Section 4.7, as it is
  very clear and reinforce the authors' efficiency arguments. However, I do not
  see the point of comparing the analysis using t-equiv to the analysis using
  t-c-c (this comment is related to the next one). As the analysis using t-equiv
  is equivalent to the original IDFS problem, the authors should measure the runtime
  of the original IFDS analysis. Is the t-equiv analysis faster than the
  original IFDS taint analysis?

  On the other hand, I really miss some numbers in Table 2 about the precision
  gain. How many false positives are discarded in each program? The approach
  is proven to be "strictly not less precise", but it is important to know
  in some examples if the actual precision gain is worthwhile compared to the
  increment in run time. I know that these results would be valid only for the
  taint analysis example and the translation-based approach is more general, but
  even so I think that this information would be interesting.


* Section 4:
  I cannot see the significance of the equivalence transformation t-equiv.
  According to the paper "If the equivalence transformation was used, then this
  solution is identical to the solution that would be computed by the IFDS
  algorithm for the original IFDS problem." Why does a transformation from IFDS
  to IDE that does not produce any precision gain could be interesting? The
  authors should include a clear motivation of this translation, or remove it
  otherwise.


* Page 13, Section 4.4 and 4.5:
  The statements of Lemma 4, Lemma 5 and Lemma 6 use some elements that are not
  explained. For example Lemma 4 introduces an execution path "p" but it uses
  also upper-case "P". I suppose that "P" is the related IFDS problem, but it
  should be explicitly stated. The same for T_R^{cc}.


* Page 11, Definition 1:
  It is difficult to read the different conditions of the \epsilon_S
  micro-function for the cases #3 and #4. There should be some space between
  them.


* Page 2:
    "Section 4 presents the correlated-calls transformation, sketches a proof of
    its correctness, 3 and discusses our implementation."
  Section 4 does not sketch any proof of the theoretical results, they are only
  stated there. The complete proofs are in the appendix.


In summary, the paper provides and interesting and sound approach based on
IFDS-to-IDE translation to improve the precision of data flow analysis, and
presents it in a clear way. It is a good candidate to appear in the symposium.

